# TheEconomist 20161119 读报笔记

<!-- ex_nolevel -->

## Trump's world: The new nationalism

1. Trump get elected because of the similar campaign as Reagan's, "Make America Great Again!". He reminds people of Reagen's renewal and gives promise of a "historic once-in-a-lifetime".

2. Reagan v.s. Trump: optimistic v.s. angry, as Reagan was giving hope and what Trump says is to protect America.

3. New nationalism is that, when global interest compete with national interest, it is a all-lose game.

4. Nationalism is a slippery concept and it is likely to be manipulated by politicians, as either "civic nationalism" or "ethnic nationalism". The former is positive, with insight of universal values including freedom and equality, whereas the latter one is pessimistic and possibly lead to wars.

5. America is trying to build a rule-based world so that it is safer and more prosperous by Trump's  predecessors endorsing America's universal values and promoting them aboard, whereas Trump's populism weakens civic nationalism, even when ethic nationalism is strengthening in other countries/areas.

6. Though China embraces the globe but its patriotic education makes its nationalism too angry and too vengeful to control. And potentially non-Han people are not treated fairly.

7. The post-nationalism in EU is foundering.

8. After the World War I, the American were of ethic nationalism, resulting in intolerance of minorities, which is similar with current situation.

9. By observing inward-looking America, other countries's policy may lead to an unstable world.

10. Trump's disengaging nationalism should be changed as it will make America vulnerable instead of protecting America. America should be re-open.